good
morning back to work
here on some
stuff of a few different things to look
at okay so this did not behave
nicely it's fairly
odd wonder if it's these
I might have some ideas on what's going
on here
this so so similar to the other training
curve the other sweep curve but
um just a little bit off
this one just slightly better
developed it's almost the same sweep to
be fair
they both have the same problem of doing
these short stupid runs
War we're back doing um hyper parameter
sweep algorithmic algorithm
development this is the new algorithm
I've been working on and it's mostly
very good it just has a few quirks with
it I'm trying to figure those out at the
moment the problem is that wherever it
tries to search it gets very very good
results um but for some reason it tends
to like after it does some good work it
just pushes all the way down to the
bottom over here and it tries to do like
a bunch of very quick experiments that
can't possibly get any good
results so we have to figure that
out move these windows around a little
bit
so let me check something
here I want to see what we're
logging the current
version so rating
we
do distance to
nearest
cost and
score okay so these stats should be
correct
um so what this is telling us is that
it predicts that it's going to this run
that it just has here this is just one
of the last runs it predicts that it's
going to score
9.256 which is a terrible score but it's
better than this nearby
score it's saying it's right next to an
existing pero
point and it's going to get a rating of
well at least we have a better way to
interpret this now than before
so this is basically the model doesn't
think that it can improve anywhere in
the Paro
front so for whatever reason
it thinks that this is the parito front
here and it cannot improve
B I mean at least now we have a clear
picture of the problem because this is
before we had like this multic component
scoring function now it's a very easy to
interpret scoring function it's just
maximum improvement over nearest Paro
point so basically this thing thinks
that it can't improve over the front so
it stops
trying and it notices hey there's a lot
of variance really on these very lowc
cost runs there's a lot of variance so
maybe I can improve a little it does you
know it kind of draws out this portion
of the curve
here uh but that shouldn't be very
valuable O3
now is this the latest one
now this is not the latest one it's
going to be the same thing with this I I
assume but it's very slightly
different yeah we have this
curve just stumbled on GitHub repo looks
cool we've got
on. they're all playable this is the
only one that doesn't have an agent on
it so this is a trained reinforcement
learning model playing breakout in your
browser you can also hold shift and take
over for the agent like
this and play for
him if I just drop shift it'll take over
same thing for all of these things we've
got multi-agent snake we've got more
complex stuff this is neural
MMO my
favorites it's pretty much a big
MMO got a MOA in here we got lots of
different things these are all ultra
high performance uh tasks for
reinforcement
learning so I work on those some of the
time I merge those in from other
contributors other portions of the time
and sometimes I get stuck doing
algorithm development which is what's
going on right here we're currently
trying to come up with a better way of
finding the uh good settings to train to
train these agents
with
and well that requires a lot of
experiments yeah thank you this is what
I'm doing full-time now is I'm trying to
make reinforcement learning stable and
consistent
I have a quick start guide though it's
you do need to at least have something
of a programming
background but
um the quick start guide we have here is
a very easy way to get involved with
this stuff like we have several
contributors who came in with just a
software engineering background no AI
background and have very quickly gotten
to be quite
competent I mean there's stuff in here
that took me many years to learn
it's a pretty quick
read and I don't link you dozens of
papers I link you like a few papers that
you should read and maybe 10 over like
over the course of a couple months you
should
read e
okay so there is one possible hypothesis
here
right it's kind of a long
shot this is the Paro front right here
so it's this
point there are a few points like here
here and here I believe but then it's
this
point this point this
point this point this point
oh it's not random at
all you want you know what random looks
like random looks like everything's like
down here for the most
part these are this is a scor front so
each of these points is an experiment
that's been run on
Palm and this is the cost of that
experiment so here this is that you are
able to get 18.9 score on pong in 18
seconds holy we got an essay from
Captain merging impulse into puffer I
know we talked
about see that might be long term what
has to happen in the short term to get
merged either get working with set of
tools or we integrate cake yes it's got
to be one of those two things basically
um we can try cming Dev if it is quicker
for you to get it to work that way we
can do
that
um I'm not committing to doing cmake or
all of puffer but we can try it and I
can play with it and I can see if I hate
it or not I think I think I owe you that
much at the least right
um I know I'm being unreasonable there
and I'm choosing to be unreasonable
because this is like a trust or
instincts thing I could be completely
wrong but you know this is the type of
stuff that is also
that has also saved puffer from lots of
bad stuff before
so if that's the easiest thing then yeah
we can just merge in cake if all the M's
build then we're good
I am fine doing a whole bunch of infer
and stuff for puffer uh as soon as I
have this algorithm in a good spot but
this algorithm at this moment for like
my Dev bandwidth this is the main thing
I'm focused on because this is going to
be so so important and
useful speaking of which there was
science side stuff that you wanted to
get involved with whenever you uh are
less busy
right okay you know I think that I
figured out what this problem is
here extrapolating for phys
so uh the thing is pito optimality which
if you're not familiar with it's a it's
fancy but it's very simple to explain so
Paro optimality says that a point is
parito optimal if there's nothing up and
to the left so if there's nothing that's
either uh faster with the same score or
you know uh better but not more
expensive than the points Paro optimal
there's nothing up and to the to the
left I should
say this point point this point it's
basically the outline of this of all the
points been having problems with box two
I think the ram needs to be
tested okay I can do
that um Captain make sure you have all
your stuff synced because I can go
basically what I'll go do is I'll go
look at it and see if I left XMP on it
if I did I'll disable that um but if
it's not XMP I might just reinstall the
OS cuz auntu has been better for us
lately it's like a 10-minute thing for
me to reinstall an OS now as
well same everything as
before welcome YouTube folks
10 minutes
took took me 3 hours on
Friday uh well I mean we just have you
know we just have our server installed
going through the installer only takes a
couple of
minutes and then we have a setup script
that just sets up the boxes for us and
then like all our stuff's already on a
container so it's really
easy my container still exist if I
reinstall the OS it'll nuke the current
container and it'll put a new one on
there so you'll get a container but
it'll like it'll nuke the container and
you'll get a new one so if there's stuff
on there that you need like
I mean ideally right like ideally you
should have
um like any extra stuff that you need to
set up and install impulse Wars and such
should be in the setup scripts so that
like the goal is that these containers
should be very quick quickly
reproducible so that like it's just like
a quick setup whenever you need a new
one
if you say like hey latest clang builds
faster code for us by the way uh you're
allowed to do things like send me
Snippets to add to the or you're allowed
to PR stuff even to the uh to the docker
files if you say hey like we need like
new clang because it builds faster code
for this like you're allowed to just PR
stuff to the
files configure
it yeah so ideally what you should do is
you should just like whatever like basic
stuff like here any like reasonable
system tools that aren't huge I'm just
going to let you put on the container
I care way less about like adding a
little bit to the container size than I
care about like
um you know like making like setup stuff
or user bugs or
whatever just make sure you PR it to the
right one you know we
have it's a three layer build so we have
a base image where like all the core
system packages go usually the easiest
thing is to add new experimental utils
to just the puffer tank file um to that
one because that's the quickest to
rebuild and then we move stuff back up
the chain you know as uh we decide okay
yeah we need this longer
term I bet it's resampling CL in this
bug weird python
versioning what weird python versioning
is there
does your dissertation talk about the
graphic L is it new research it's new
research here it's based on
this by the way this is linked in the
the quick start guide as well but in Bui
carbs there's a paper in this as well
it's a very mathy paper but the goal is
to do parito optimal hyper parameter
optimization which means that you're
trying to your algorithm is trying to
draw like an outline around all these
points you're trying to figure out uh
what is the best experiment you can run
for every cost budget which is for how
long you're willing to run the
experiment so if you're willing to run
the experiment for you know here 5
Seconds 15 seconds 30 seconds you want
the best possible performance
python 311 is the
only you said python does and Python 3
don't I mean ideally we'd have
it python 311 is the only python
binary okay that's weird
I we've used puffer lib as low as python
38 so I don't know what what's going on
with that like we used 38 on it with
Isaac and it just worked
fine I think the only thing I know that
doesn't work is if you go too uh if you
go above 311 maybe it's above 312 there
are some uh like external third- party
environments that won't work so like if
you include those extras they don't work
but puffer shouldn't have weird
dependencies like we really don't do
that much if there's anything weird yeah
absolutely fix
oh that's weird yeah that shouldn't be
the
case uh if you wait if you've been
seeing me do that on my container that's
because of that's because I was doing
Isaac Dev and I installed python 38 in
that and I broke some
links that shouldn't be the case
in that's not the case in a fresh
container I don't
think I just did uh I just set up a new
one just like yesterday and it was
fine are you getting that problem on
yours
H weird
and all these stability issues are
ridiculous magnetics we want to reduce
the area in the BH
curve we're trying to maximize it so the
goal here is right
that this is the x-axis is how much time
we spend running an experiment right we
can just train for longer the y- AIS is
the score this is how well the
experiment does so for however much
we're going to put into the experiment
however much we're going to spend we
want to maximize the score and this is
defined by the hyper parameters that are
used to run the algorithm so if we don't
spend any time running the experiment
you're not going to get any score if we
spend 10 seconds running the experiment
the best point the best that we can do
in 10 seconds is this point right here
you know there's nothing that for 10
seconds whoops there's nothing for 10
seconds that does better than that point
so that point is parito
optimal at 15 seconds the best point is
right
here and a 20 seconds the best points
here so we're trying to expand this Paro
front no IDE it depends on the
environment it shouldn't be
exponential definitely shouldn't be
exponential it's usually going to be
logarithmic or log
bound this looks exponential to
you this is bounded
this is like a log
bound it's bounded at 20 it's like log
bound the shape of this
curve exponential would be the other
curvature and what I think is I think
what's happening prob probably here I
think I've identified the issue I think
that it's just it's going to be very
noisy
um sometimes you can just get lucky this
the thing and the same hyper parameters
aren't always going to give you the
exact same result so if these points got
lucky then the pedo front is actually
probably not this High
out and then it's going to say well I
can't improve over any of these points
because these points are already
unrealistic so it's just going to run
stuff over
here I think that's probably what
happened so I got to think about the
resampling
reads back into
training yeah in a
way the uh the the algorithm has a set
of hyper parameters right like the
learning rate the entropy gamma and
Lambda there are a bunch of these
parameters and this is what this
algorithm is trying to set it's trying
to find the optimal hyper parameters for
training
I think we got to start on this I think
I found the issue and we just got to
start on
this e
can you show me an
example e
there you
go that would be the parito curve as
defined by the current
data but the thing is I think that these
points are noisy so I think what's
happening is that this is an
overestimate so the reason that I think
the algorithm is crashing is that this
point should probably be down
here and this point should probably be
like here and you know like this and so
on so I think that what's happening is
that because you have these
overconfident estimates uh the algorithm
stops sampling in this region because it
can't
improve yeah no it's just the best
performers at each cost
and I think what we need to do is we
need to resample
here there results of a run Captain so
we have this plot this is actually this
is the simplified one so I it does like
just a tiny bit worse than the previous
one I think it's just noise though uh
because the algorithm is very similar we
simplified a couple of things this is
the best graph that we have at the
moment and the results are very very
good it's just that it degenerates so
like after 100 runs or something it just
starts sampling right here but this
portion of the curvature is really good
like this is 20.5 4 in less than 20
seconds
so this is really
good but I think like points like this
and stuff we we get over
estimates the
problem
for e
okay I need to modify there's quite a
bit I actually need to modify to support
this feature which is annoying
well I'm going to try to focus a little
bit here and the goal is going to the
goal here is going to be to add a
resampling mechanism uh by which you can
you can essentially run the same trial
multiple times in order to get an
average performance so that you don't
get overestimates on the paredo
front uh well it was going to have
resampling I just never bothered with it
because it's a little Annoying to
implement so I'm going to yeah I'm
adding this now so yes it does as well
as it does currently without
resampling it is a good algorithm
sir for
well it's just obnoxious because you
have to modify the whole format in which
you store
observations cuz now you can't just
store every observation you have to
store the
groups to take means over groups as
well
e e
the
annoying
e e
I'm thinking how I want to structure
this
e
e e
welcome no idea how that's supposed to
render but welcome
so what I'm thinking here is whether I
can get away with just doing the
Min just get away with doing the Min
over the
uh redo front
couldn't deal with X anymore it's Tyler
welcome oh hang
on I
uh damn it this is what happens with the
uh the Discord stuff is I literally I
didn't realize that was you CU everybody
has a million different
names all right makes sense why you're
trying to pick up some of this stuff
yeah I mean this
is this is one of the more algorithm
centered things this is not like stuff
that you'll see a lot of RL people doing
day-to-day in fact this is like the type
of thing that I like to do it's a
severely neglected but very important
area of RL where getting this right will
make everything else just better
immediately but you have to think about
stuff quite a bit I mean there's
like the math is very simple but it's
like a bunch of transforms that have to
be thought about not just from a math
perspective but from like a learning
perspective as
well why are you allowed to ignore the
bottom right points throwaway data well
they're just not OP they're not
considered optimal points as all you'll
still use them for learning but they're
not optimal points you're trying to find
the set of optimal points on the
frontier
text ain't going through on X let me
see it says it's live but sometimes yeah
sometimes the server just eat
messages I don't have any configuration
set up to block
stuff I've looked like several times to
see if there's a way to fix it I don't
know if it's restream I don't know if
it's X it might be a rate limiter that
they have built in I don't know
they really
did I don't know I had a I had a pretty
cool interaction where one of the guys
there like saw I think his dad watched
my streams or something so I got invited
over there to go chat with uh some
people at
X
um yeah I mean they have like it's a
it's a cool platform but I I personally
would not be happy working working on
like such an annoyingly big Legacy code
base and also I'm kind of man on a
mission here with RL so we didn't really
do anything there but
um I mean they're cool for sure e
that's what this is I should message
those guys as well just to tell them
that they've been doing good work on uh
they've been doing great work on
X it's a really good
platform it's got problems still of
course
but e
I think the way that we're going to do
this it's kind of
silly I don't think this is ever going
to be a
bottleneck no cuz the GP is already qu
like is already
okay yeah this is fine
how long does the th runs of pong take
on your
server
uh 68
hours on one
server they're only like 30 second runs
should only be six or eight
hours e
you don't need the graphics you do have
to simulate it playing the game but you
don't need you don't need the
graphics a th000 runs of pong is I mean
each run is between five and 20 million
steps usually
we're training on you know between 1 and
three billion uh frames of data per hour
typically one to three billion steps of
data per
hour and we have way more data than that
as well we're GPU
bound for
a good goal for my first CPU
run I mean if you play with it you'll
kind of get a sense these things are
like we like our stuff runs at least a
100 times faster than the vast majority
of stuff in the rest of RL
so it's pretty quick to play around with
I mean stuff like this will make it even
better but it just this type of stuff
takes me a little bit
it's a little more than just that
Captain because even if you just use uh
the standard Atari we're still 30X
faster than most
stuff but yeah if you want a 100 or
1,000 x faster then you have to use our
fan your
things
for e
I'm just Saed for a
server I mean we're going to have uh we
have a few at the moment we've got I
think nine total boxes and the goal is
going to be to expand to
40 the 59s are so delayed that gives me
a bit of time to get some more Revenue
anyways we'd like to add at least one
more new contract speaking of which we
have to check my
email I had to check for formal contract
stuff
as dang good news for them not great
news for us
dang that's
unfortunate
oh no doesn't mean no no just means
later
are you done with contract work I'm just
waitting no I we have one active that I
have to do some stuff on um but but then
the other one we're uh we're waiting for
them to
resign which they've said they will they
just
uh they've been busy over uh the last
few
days for
end result of
e3b e3b uh so mazm is getting added to
puffer e3b I still have to do test that
is going to be scheduled for probably
tomorrow reason being that I want to get
this hyper pram stuff stable enough
before I start on other things
yeah and I have e3b we're going to do
that that's slated for this
week all the environments are rendered
they're not they're just not rendered
during training time and it's not just
because it's cool either it's a
necessary thing to do in RL uh you
cannot debug without being able to see
what is going on in your
M these all have front ends they all
train
on uh partially observed local state
the ones that are fully observed are
fully observed
obviously like the only thing that's
redundant here like the animations
aren't even redundant the animations are
necessary because the like the
animations are they correspond to State
changes in the agent and you even need
that to be able to see so basically the
only thing that is redundant in this
whole UI is the fact that I made it
pretty by like you know making the tiles
all snap together nice and luring stuff
like this like the texture packs and
this like movement and stuff that's
technically not needed that's to make it
pretty but like you literally do need to
have at least like render the terrain
render the agents some render some basic
animations like all these things are
necessary for
debugging and for interpreting behaviors
you run simulation optimize running in
yep
e e
what do you expect optimizations to
achieve when do you expect optimizations
hyper well that's what this algorithm
does right
this algorithm automates the
optimization of hyper
frame well I'm I'm working on the
algorithm still the algorithm isn't done
I'm testing the performance of the
alet and I'm making
tweaks right you have to develop the
thing that automates the thing
I'm screwy
here ah okay
h that's
awkward use ra for all rendering yeah
you're watching real time RL exorcism
yeah exactly that's the
idea that is the
idea
for
e e
oh yeah this will be screwy actually
h for
there we go this now works
jeez yeah that's
rough no people have like very
different your ADV your PhD is like so
very dependent on your relationship with
your
adviser
um I know I was I was like always doing
my own stuff so for me with uh with
philli it was pretty much just like I'd
work on whatever crazy stuff I was
working on and then we'd shoot the [__]
about AI once in a while and like where
the field is going um
and you know I had very strong views on
where I thought you know stuff should go
and he was generally just like all right
you know I took you as a student because
you're competent that was the General
understanding so you just keep doing
this crazy
stuff that's
rough and I saw Philip at at the
conference lately and he was like what
the heck out how have you gotten all
this stuff done since you graduated like
why couldn't you do this during your PhD
and I told him it was like look I as far
out of left field as I went during my
PhD I had to go even further at a left
field to really solve all the stuff I've
been doing like I had to completely
dispensed with the academic way of doing
things in order to actually make uh to
make progress
here I mean think about it like you
would never in your PhD while you're
actively researching stuff and there's
always a paper deadline and there's
always a this and always a that you'd
never just drop stuff and be
like I think today I'm going to try
writing a snake environment and then I'm
going to Port it to
C like that's just not a thing that you
would do
right literally it's like I don't know
people talk about uh like taking
hallucinogens or whatever and like
having like a snap moment
so what I did instead of that is uh I
ran a 50k and like I completely fried
myself I could not think for three days
after running that thing like I
literally couldn't add two like two
digit numbers in my head um it was like
crazy crazy strain on body um and then
like three days after that was just like
yeah I think I want to write some
C I think that would be
cool and that's exactly what happened
not even making it up
mold for graphite cath
cathodes huh
cool yeah I mean a lot of the stuff is
just a lot of the progress is just found
in the problems that nobody's bothered
to look
at never you see before very little so
I've been working on neural MMO 3 uh in
scyon and I had this snake environment
in scyon right
um but I like I really liked that you
could render the stuff online with rib
if you did it all in C so I just was
thinking I wonder how hard it could be I
wonder if this will be easy or not and
it turned out it's very easy in fact
it's easier than anything
else also as for the thought process I
don't know what the thought process is
man I I like I was totally
fried I mean I have an article on this
thing
where is
this I know this is like something I'm
pretty genuinely proud of
because I mean like I was not ever a
good runner growing up I ran cross
country like when I was younger but I
was always like towards the end like
towards the back of everyone
right but yeah I did
this thing I wrote this article as well
like while I was still basically
incoherent ridiculous
couldn't look at a couple hundreds of
years ago wish I could see what da Vinci
could do with our
Tech I wonder how people like that would
adapt
yeah so this is clearly fine what I want
to do with this now
is I want to modify the test a little
bit I end happen to come off your video
from Team lucid
oh jeez that was like my first
internship as an undergrad that was like
Peak blunder
years I I don't know I wrote that
children's book in middle school I'm
sure I lost money after all the
publishing and
stuff I mean that was like I did that
when I was like 12 or something I have
no
idea been more shorter mid distance I
did not enjoy the long distance I just
did it to do it
I do think everyone should do a full
Marathon at some point it's a like it's
a good thing to do like just it's it's
personal development more than anything
honestly but yeah at the moment I'm just
um well I mean I had the pneumonia thing
right so like I'm just trying to get my
cardio back up to something reasonable
so I'm doing just uh a couple 5Ks and
some intervals every week and then
trying to get my strength back as
well much more optimistic oh I'm very
optimistic the thing is I'm very
optimistic about where the tech can go
and what we can build with it I'm just
pessimistic about most of the stuff
that's out there at the moment because
all the code
sucks I think I'm at least as optimistic
as I ever was and now I actually have
the skills to build it that's the
difference for
I mean you have to you honestly have to
be very Brash in order to make progress
in some sense because like it has to
occur to you that maybe the people that
built this standard thing that's been
used for a while were dumb and didn't
know what they were doing right like you
have to be arrogant enough to think that
in order to like go try to rebuild
something that's been used forever or
whatnot
like you literally cannot be humble and
like you cannot have like the mindset
that everybody is very confident and you
know and you like you need to be very
humble you cannot have that mindset to
make
progress because if you do you won't
challenge the existing stuff and
actually find that it's
broken I mean Academia will laugh like
they'll just laugh their way into
irrelevance right
and laugh all they want I don't
care I've literally had like fourth rate
researchers uh who have never published
anything useful or done anything
remotely useful and have done like weird
theoretical things that don't even apply
anywhere uh I've had them like come up
to me at like my published no my posters
at conferences and like ask them if I
just ask if I just do this stuff in my
free time like where's my real research
it's
like yeah
okay see you
the thing is I can laugh like I can
laugh that off right because it's like
yeah I've got the pedigree I'm going to
have options to do whatever the heck I
want but yeah that type of stuff if
you're not in that position it
sucks engineer it's weird to think of
people being oh yeah no researchers have
some of the worst mindset a lot of the
scientists do the good ones are really
good
right nothing worse than a mediocre
scientist it's 10%
everywhere sometimes you'll get a little
more density at like at Myer places but
for the most part it's like literally
yeah that's just going to be what it
is e
one second let me at least get this
running
generational assumption
neurons yeah might be the wrong
acronym might just be the wrong
one it's funny though
okay so the current thing that I'm doing
here um is I am I added some noise to
this
Benchmark I want to see how it plays
with
noise so I think that what can happen
here is that if you get noisy
observations then uh you'll eventually
get lucky essentially with the noise and
you'll get a point that's too good and
you won't be able to do better than that
point because it's better than the
theoretical maximum and your model will
figure that out and then stop trying
because it can't do any better than
that we're going to see if that's how it
works so actually I'm looking at this
and I think did I do this wrong
I think that's that's
probably it's probably fine we'll
see completely broken this though
looks like it has it
laed what I'd like to do if I can is I'd
like to replicate the uh the problem
that I'm seeing on the real environments
in the synthetic task that would be the
goal for
how do you get those nod likee images
showing
hyper
choices
these you just make a dashboard here you
add a
scatter and then the view that we
have the view that we have here this is
just uh cost versus
score next most important thing to
accelerate RL after hyper parameter
stuff is figured out
okay um
it's probably going to be some core
algorithm stuff I would
think I what we're going to do with this
so it depends what you consider the
hyper parameter stuff in general because
it kind of all hooks together Captain
um
blinds oh yeah that's I'll show you that
that that comes from this but uh captain
that thing
is once we have good hyper parameter
sweeps right we're going to run it
across a ton of different environments
and I want to see how optimal hyper
parameters vary across environments and
then use that to inform modifications to
the existing training
algorithms that will then generally
improve perf across all the environments
so it's probably going to be some core
algorithm stuff would be my guess there
um but it's going to be informed by
large scale hyper parameter sweeps and
the key is that you need to really have
confidence in those sweeps right they
need to be relatively efficient and you
need to have confidence in them so
that's what uh this is trying to do
yeah so this is not showing you optimal
anything uh this is just showing you the
amount of compute that you're taking at
each
point accurate fast synthetic data well
we have that for all of our tasks right
so we have a lot of these that we can
use for research protein
power that'd be funny
I might steal
that that might be P30
what the heck happened to this why does
this not work
now I'm not allowed to change the
score oh you know how I should have
probably
I should have I should have added noise
this
instead I think I just added the noise
to the wrong
spot p PPS that's funny
we'll see what this
does hopefully this at least gives us
something more
reasonable noise task
good stream
day to give a quick overview of what's
going on
here I think that the issue with um the
algorithm at the moment this is a hyper
parameter sweep algorithm
I think it's just not particularly
robust to noise uh in the
observations and I think the reason for
that is if you get a parito point that's
above where it should be so if you get
lucky essentially then the model cannot
ever do better than that so it just
stops trying um so what I'm doing now is
I I've made a modification that I think
should help with this but I'm trying to
reproduce the uh the failure on
synthetic data
to see if I have understood this
correctly and if I can fix it in the
synthetic
task two
presentations some people hate the
conferences that's
cool good luck with
those I think I will be avoiding
conferences for a little bit
just because the last one nearly killed
me
so it's a pretty damn good reason I'd
say
and that really breaks it doesn't it
that
noise I want to see if I can if I can
see why in the
chart puffer the Taz map suit
I mean pretty much I've been to brunch I
went on vacation yeah but I've been
other than that I've been on like since
I've been here I think I've been to
brunch a few times and that's about
it just like straight up nope stop
getting me sick you disgusting people
25% noise what would 25% noise
be reasonable amount of noise
starting to maybe see it a little
bit
maybe I think more
realistic we'll do 0.1 but it'll be
gaussian so will be bigger
Peaks what are we working on
today working on the hyper parameter
sweep stuff
um this algorithm is doing incredibly
well but there are it seems like
susceptible to to noise essentially this
the best run no this is the second best
sweep that I have the best sweep that I
have is right
here yeah so this solves pong in less
than 20
seconds but after you do around 100
experiments it starts just doing
experiments right here it starts just
running degenerate experiments uh and
the reason is it's basically it's just
decided that it can't improve anywhere
here
anymore it's just decided it can no
longer improve anywhere so it just
stops so we're going to see if we can
fix
that for
could you add a flag after you reach
Optimal
Performance yeah you actually can but uh
the thing is I don't think it's actually
reached Optimal Performance I think it's
just that there's some
noise maybe this isn't the spot to added
either okay I think to actually the best
SP to add this would be
no
cost we'll look at this as well but I
think that this will be the better
way yeah if you add the noise here then
it can
actually uh it can actually break the
curve a little bit which is what you'd
want think we can even do 20
well in this specific case it means that
um when you run an experiment you can
run the same experiment several times
and get different
results uh
and it can be quite there can be a quite
substantial deviation in some cases so
if you get like a really lucky
experiment right and then you set that
as the Baseline you're not going to be
able to replicate that so the model's
just going to stop
learning uh to do better than that cuz
it won't be able to cuz you just got
lucky
okay yeah so this is also not giving me
good enough data to even do anything
with try this
noise this test the robustness of the
hyper parameter sweep
algorithm e
D this absolutely nukes your uh
performance
hey e
during my master we spent months finding
out where noise was coming from in our
detectors turns out something it's a
great x-ray detector our experiments
produced very high power
x-rays we had to put a bunch of lead
shielding around around the
detectors
well about the most dangerous part of my
work is getting freaking pneumonia at a
conference don't have to be dealing with
that radiation
I probably got a heck of a lot more
radiation in the
subsequent X-rays and CTS
see so the rating is already negative at
this point so it doesn't know how to
improve
anymore so yeah this is completely
broken at
huh
this is a lot like
holy okay let me just make sure that
it's still
working I had a tiny bit of noise surely
this shouldn't mess it up right I'll
just do
50 I don't know I looked up the
effective doses of stuff and
uh the amount of radiation You' get in a
CT scan is apparently the same as about
2 years worth of normal
exposure just natural
exposure which is also seven times above
the
recommended annual
dosage but still about 115th of
the you know possibly cancer concerning
dosage e
h
could we just get better MRI machines
would that just work
if you find a way to produce liquid
hydrogen very
efficiently
okay I mean that doesn't sound like a
harder problem to me than making x-ray
design like x-ray chips better
right the heck is this okay does this
just not work now what what's going on
here could have sworn that we had this
thing we had this thing working right
something
screwy yeah the CT is the one that gives
you a [__] ton of radiation
right Works instantly but gives you a
ton of radiation
hey
welcome something must have broken at
some point with this task here
because the base task does not seem to
be working now we will run the full
thing to be sure
I could have sworn we tested this as
well
this is no game this is live
reinforcement learning
Dev Super conting Man
bi compatible
too is there a reason that they take
half an hour or
longer and also wire the machine so
expensive
okay good I didn't break it it just
takes a while here
apparently how many is this
it does take quite a while here
though and it actually it gets quite
high score here as well it just doesn't
know what are you even
doing I am currently attempting to well
I'm tweaking a hyper parameter tuning
algorithm that I'm designing for use
with reinforcement learning so the goal
here is that this algorithm it's derived
from IMB AI
carbs it's
a basian optimization
algorithm that attempts to discover a
set of Pito optimal points that is
points that
are it attempts to figure out what
experiments you can run that are going
to be cheaper and better than any other
experiment you can run or cheaper or
better than any other experiment you can
run
essentially uh and I have a variation of
this algorithm that seems to work much
better but I'm working out some Kinks
with
it okay so this one this one does work
oops okay so this one works without the
noise it does work it takes a while but
it does work
so if I add a little bit of noise what
happens I think that the key issue at
the moment is robustness to
noise I don't entirely know
though and to cool the magnet with
liquid
helium H okay so this is the S okay this
is the super conducting stuff okay I get
it let's see
so that's why they always have all the
tanks around okay
question here is going to
be why noise is such a
problem have an automated clinic and
10-minute MRI scan
well you actually wouldn't need that
much you would
basically it's a non-invasive
procedure you basically need to just be
able to do this legally and make it
cheap enough that you wouldn't want like
you wouldn't need to even bother with
the insurance for it right
yeah just get your monthly MRI 50 bucks
a month perfect
I mean that would catch like so much
stuff right if the images were uh high
quality
enough that would catch a ton of
stuff okay good so it works here it does
still
work with uh 10 uh 10% noise on average
we'll compare this to the other
one and then we'll see where it breaks
it's not completely degenerate
yet it's only a 10% noise difference
though
oh it's doing
something in the same number of runs it
looks like it's potentially collapsing
sooner
okay yeah so here is the one with no
noise and here is the one with
noise Make It improve
40 yeah it can improve all the like it
can improve quite a bit all over the
frontier here but it doesn't see that at
the moment because of the
noise if we make it more aggressive are
we really going to see
it is this enough noise or
this this still seems like pretty clean
compared
to Let's crank it up a bit Let's do
let's see if we still get anything with
this hot or cold sandwiches hot
sandwiches e
it's not that it's taking longer to
Verge it's screwing up the uh it's
screwing up the final results as well I
think interestingly not in the direction
you would
expect wait hold on this one is here
it's hard to
say yeah like this point I think is
probably better than you can actually
do we'll see it more with uh 20 if it
actually even does anything
okay there it goes
so it still is going to do some higher
cost runs
we're not seeing the collapsing back
issue though
not clearly at
least maybe
still not really
collapsed with a low
cost kind of a little at the end
there okay so this is with a bunch of
noise I'm starting to look more
reasonable
so right here this thing is basically
decided it's solved at
50 a lot of pita points
here e
I honestly don't know if we can say
whether qual uh qualitatively resampling
should change very much
here my have to just run it cuz it's
about time for me to go get breakfast
anyways so I might just set up a run to
go e
set this up for
now
okay I am uh I'm going to go get some
food get some exercise do a few things
and then I will be back probably early
afternoon to work on this some
more and uh see what we can do with this
I we're getting very close here there
just there a few of these annoying
quirks uh which I think that these were
quirks with the original algorithm as
well we're going to fix all
this and we'll go from there I uh I have
a bunch of other stuff to work on as
well so we might do a few other things
this is quite important though right so
for folks here um we do have quite a few
folks on at the
moment all my stuff is free and open
source it's on puffer doai you can check
out the website it is a company as well
um but the only thing we sell is service
so service is a service not software is
a service if you are at a company that
could use some help with RL come check
this out but for the rest of you start
the GitHub really helps us out you can
join the Discord to get involved with
development or just come to chat you can
follow me on X for
more more reinforcement learning content
and we